and that is gaza's Civil Defense Agency
saying that about 100 people have been
killed in an Israeli air strike on a
school on Gaza
City well we can go straight over to our
correspondent Jenny Hill who's in Tel
Aviv Jenny good to have you with us just
bring us up to date with the
latest yeah this is being described as a
horrific Massacre by gaza's defense um
agency Civil Defense Agency which is run
by Hamas they say that three Israeli
Rockets struck the school in the darj
district of Gaza City this morning they
say that the school was being used as a
shelter for displaced people and there
are suggestions that those people may
have been at morning prayer when the
attack happened it is then reported that
a fire broke out following the strike
with emergency workers uh scrambling to
rescue people from inside the building
now the Israeli military has confirmed
the strike but they say that the school
was housing a Hamas command center it's
the second strike on a gazan school in
as many days and in fact Israel has
repeatedly struck schools in Gaza in the
last week or two each time the military
insists that they are in effect pursuing
legitimate targets that the schools are
housing Hamas bases they also insist
that through the use of precision
missiles and intelligence they are doing
their best to mitigate the loss of
civilian life
our correspondent there Jenny Hill in
Tel Aviv Jenny thanks for bringing us
the
latest and I am joined in the studio now
by Muhammad Taha from BBC Arabic who's
also been following the very latest uh
Muhammad we've seen some really
devastating scenes this morning many too
graphic too horrific for us to be able
to broadcast fully but just tell us more
about what you've been seeing there and
apparently the velocity of the these
smart missiles that Israel used is
causing the bodies to be uh to be uh cut
and the bodies to be un un
identified uh actually we saw uh
different shelling in Gaza so we saw
this shelling with heavy bombs that are
destroying the whole buildings
completely uh and we saw these smart uh
bombs that are targeting very very
precise uh targets uh so the difference
between having a massive attack on a
place that could Target the the the
5,000 people who were uh were sheltered
in this uh in this school that would
have left us with hundreds of people uh
dead but targeting the prayer area
precisely in the school left the school
building in large intact but the the the
building that has been affected uh is is
the prayer area that and left more than
100 people died there were uh we
understood that there were around 300
worshippers uh praying at that time when
this High Velocity bum uh three rockets
as we understand um um strike that
prayer area and caused this amount of
death but unfortunately the horrific
scenes that we saw and that we cannnot
uh U
presented to viewers is because this
high velocity of of missiles Muhammad as
we know uh Israeli authorities say that
they were targeting a Hamas Command
Center within that school so I just
wonder do we know then whether there was
the possibility for these civilians who
presumably were seeking shelter to
receive any kind of warning about this
in many cases the Israeli forces would
issue a warning to the the people uh
before uh targeting a building or a
school or a hospital they ask people to
EV evacuate they ask people to move from
fighting area but apparently in this
time Israel wanted really to Target uh
Hamas members who are were apparently
praying at the time we understand that
Hamas members are religious people and
they are an ideology they are fighting
for a cause fighting for sake of as they
say sake of God sake of their Nation
sake of of of having a a an independent
state so they would be praying at that
time in the morning prayer which is
happening with their local times between
uh 4: and 5 a.m. in the morning so when
Israel just struck that uh prayer area a
few minutes after the beginning of the
area they would know that there are
members of Hamas were praying at that
area so they didn't care much of giving
a warning they wanted that
Target no matter how civilians would die
in that attack and know Muhammad you and
I have been looking at images throughout
the course of the morning families
crowding around people that they have
lost people who are injured there at the
hospital but I just wonder at this stage
in the conflict realistically what kind
of hope is there for the health system
for these hospitals to actually be able
to really save the lives of people who
have been injured to treat people when
we know that the health system of course
um has really been facing the
consequences of this ongoing conflict
unfortunately the health system in Gaza
cannot deal with such incidents there is
an only one Hospital working in Gaza
which is alahi hospital is partially
working uh the hospital that we saw
picture of is sha is not working
properly alifa compound is out of
service al- madani hospital is out of
service there are many hospitals that
are out of service I heard reports that
are saying many doctors are were
arrested by the Israeli forces many uh
doctors were killed this
system relying so much on the foreign
aid or also the doctors that are
volunteering to come from foreign
countries or other countries to come and
help in their leave time or in in their
free time but unfortunately the
hospitals they do not have uh enough
equipment uh enough medications or
enough facilities to deal with that and
this is the biggest biggest question now
if there are men more than 100 people
died there are uh maybe a a similar
number of injured people who cannot find
any uh Medical Aid and unless uh the
world would would do some something for
these people by by by rushing to to save
their lives and and and making sure that
they are civilians Worth to be lived
live and give them give them uh the
opportunity to to to heal and and
continue with their lives and viewers
will just be able to see there on their
screens the very latest pictures there
of the scene at that school there in
Gaza Muhammad Taha from BBC Arabic
across the very latest developments
in this story as ever we thank you for
being with
us well we can speak now to I'm in the
professor of Middle Eastern studies at
the Australian National University thank
you very much for being with us um we
know that more ceasefire talks were
expected to start next week in light of
what we've been seeing and what we've
just been discussing there with our
correspondent Muhammad that strike on
the school in Gaza uh over 100 people k
according to Hamas authorities where
does that leave the situation in your
assessment this further complicates the
process of negotiating ceasefire and it
is a slap in the face of all those
countries and that is Egypt Qatar the
United States United Arab amates which
have really wanted a seire to be
inforced and I I it is very clear that
that Israeli leadership does not want
ceasefire and they are still determined
uh on their original aim that they must
really wipe out U Hamas but in the
process they're also killing so many
civilians
now and and it's that's why the whole
thing is become so horrific and the
Israeli attack on this school really
comes on the top of uh attacking two
other schools in the last week which
have resulted in a killing uh of scores
of innocent children which basically
amounts to an Israeli policy of trying
to wipe out the second generation of
gazans so that they are not going to be
able to uh Prevail in the future and as
we know Israel has said that it is
targeting a Hamas Command Center at a
school there but just taking a look at
the picture more broadly we know that
Yahya sinoa now the head of Hamas all of
these things taken together how do you
think this is comp
licated the possibility for peace for
any kind of meaningful breakthrough
during those upcoming ceas fire
talks I mean as you said it is making it
very complicated and this is the we were
told by the Israelis months ago that
they cleared hamos out of the Gaza City
and yet they keep continuing bombing
Gaza cities and also all those areas
which they have said that they have uh
destroyed Hamas and how long they going
to really continue to do that they can
always claim that there is Hamas members
somewhere and as a result they can kill
also hundreds of innocent people and
this is what is really happening and I
think in the view of many analysts this
constitute what what you what can be
called State terrorism I mean this is
what Israel has been trying to do and
it's be become extremely provocative and
and basically trying to inflame not only
the Palestinians but also all those
people who sympathize with the
Palestinian cause in in the Arab world
and the Muslim world and of course as we
know the US UK among those governments
uh which view Hamas as a terror
organization as well um I just want to
talk about the broader backdrop of this
um and that is of course Israel waiting
to see if an attack from Iran Rises how
closer do you think this war could be
edging towards spiraling into a broader
conflict here well it is really aging
towards that and uh of course uh there
is a lot of pressure on Iranian
government at the moment uh to restrain
itself but at the same time not the
equal amount of pressure has been put by
the United States and other allies of
Israel to restrain Israel from these
provocative actions uh Israel is has
continued to Target uh um hisb figur uh
amamos figures as well as Iranian
commanders and sites and that does not
really serve the cause of bringing about
peace and stability uh I think we are at
a flash point at the moment and if Iran
and hisb uh carry out their promise of
responding to to Israeli attacks uh then
we will see the beginning of uh a major
regional inter Inferno that nobody may
be able to control it at the end and I
think this is uh the this is now the
right time for the United States
particularly for the Biden
Administration to really pull Israel
into line and they can only do that by
stopping supplying of arms to Israel
which enable Israel to continue this not
only against Hamas and Gaza but also
targeting uh other uh supporters of uh
Palestinian cause in the region you
mentioned there the Biden campaign I
just wonder how you think that this will
be viewed internationally cognizant of
the fact that the Biden Administration
um is now also looking at a Harris
campaign do you anticipate any pivot in
strategy from the US bearing in mind it
is the close IST Ally of
Israel well Camila Harris has voiced
stronger support for ceas fire and also
observation of uh human rights by
Israelis and Gaza uh and of course that
is irritated to the leadership
particularly prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu uh and I think this sort of
Massacre uh cannot really help uh the
situation as far as the Democrats are
concerned and I think now the Democratic
candidates will have to really come out
and to express their horror about the
whole thing but then on the other on the
other hand you have the Republican
candidate the former prime minister to
Trump who has said that uh if he wins
the election then uh um he will give the
whole of the West Bank and Gaza to
Israel so there is a a real uh debate
going on in the United States at the
moment and but Israel Lobby is also very
active in the United States to make sure
that only those who are elected that
support or the Israel and it remains
absolutely committed to Israel uh
Supremacy in the region and we should
just say uh there that Israel once again
says that it was targeting a Hamas
Command Center in a school we are
nevertheless seeing a very high civilian
casualty number Aman cyel professor of
Middle Eastern studies at the Australian
National University we thank you for
your time my pleasure